
                       fear and loathing at yapc
                                   or
       a savage journey into the heart of a swiss army chainsaw.

this is a diary of my yapc experience. it is as true as the facts and my
lawyers will allow and as false as you wish it. any resemblence between
this and the reality of the trip is pure dumb luck. most of the names
have been lost due to the bug the nsa put in my skull.

how did i first hear of yapc? maybe it was over the back yard fence? or
was it mentioned in the matt drudge report? or could it have been an
email from matt wright? i don't know but what i do remember is what i
felt when i heard about it. some cmu kid was going to try and get some
perl hackers to hang out with him for a couple of days. i didn't know
kevin lenzo from a script kiddie (just kidding :-). so i pretty much
ignored the idea of going until i heard some of the names
attending. larry (not rosler) was going to bestow his aura upon the
festivities and randal was going to be drinking iron city and all sorts
of other low lifes and perl mongers were going. i felt the tug of a
critical mass of perl geeks drawing me to the convergence of two mighty
rivers. i consulted my boss. she said, "uri, you want to go, so go and
let me have some peace in the house for 4 days". i felt the love.

so here i am in my hotel on wednesday afternoon wondering what i would
do for the evening when i decided to call this kevin lenzo and see what
was up. lo and behold he actually answers his phone and he tells me of a
dinner gathering that night and that i could crash it. it was at a
middle eastern place and about 25 hackers were there. i met kevin and he
had a long pony tail. i just knew we would get along. the evening
zig-zagged along in a "who are you?" and "what is your quest?" dance
amongst the sets of new faces. kevin turned out to be a decent guy and
not the posturing twit my evil imagination had predicted he might
be. after randal showed up later we crawled across the street for a code
review of the Monger::Suds module.

the next morning i got there just in time to register and i caught the
start of larry's speech. it seems he scrapped his scheduled talk and
gave one about living in the x10 house from hell (larry, sorry for the
bad word). it seems he has enslaved his family to worship his computer
by pressing the correct sequence of buttons and switches so that the
system will emit the chants and encantations that keep the life forces
flowing through his household. or that is what i got out of it. i told
my wife about the button to hit and you can hear if you have email and
she wants one! she won't get it because larry praises laziness and i am
just lazier than he is.

i got a look at the building and conference rooms and i was impressed.
cmu just built this center and we had a very large ball room which could
be split in thirds. nothing like that at cambridge tech.

the first session i attended was the sweetly named "ineffective perl
programming or idiotic perl". i knew i could contribute some doozies i
have seen. but the ones shown on the big screen were stupid enough for a
barrelfull of newbies. matt wright's name was taken in vain a lot. the
crowd seemed to was brought to a homicidal frenzy of cruel and inhuman
abuse of the moronic code. i was in the right place.

we then were given box lunch and i thought that my value so far was
equal to what i got from the o'reilly conference which cost an order of
magnitude more.

my next session was an unscheduled one given by gnat on perl lies. with
the kind of logical reasoning he was expounding, he should have
testified at randal's trial! seems we perl advocates have something to
learn from (abe) lincoln.

during the lulls between interesting sessions, i was able to hang out
with various others also playing hookie. we truants would have
interactive conversations in real time with 3d effects. K001. i had a
private tutorial in the ways of perl/gtk. i think i will switch from
perl/tk which never clicked (sic) with me. another time i met with
someone i was introduced to over thl senses" and was
given by a cute perl girl. it appears that perl can see and hear (via
read and listen), but it can't smell (though its detractors say it
smells), taste or touch (it can touch on unix or on POB with the
pptools). she did a marvelous job and PBS is picking up her option for a
series of 10 hourly episodes.

skipping most of a reception (except for some of kevin's mom's homemade
treats), i tossed a frisbee around (with a pig and a coin) on some
campus lawn. this was after first doing it in the hallway outside the
ballroom with a mildy interested audience.

then we had a buffet dinner. o'reilly never gave us dinner. somehow
kevin scammed the computer science dept. into paying for it all. the man
is a regular milo minderbinder! i bet he sold into indetured servitude
to some catering company some of those cmu CS undergraduates. sounds
like a win for yapc.

after chowing down, the collective fractal brain came up with a plan for
the evening. first let's find the least comfortable room in town in
which to drink beer and then we will perform live on stage, our own
version of MST3K. we ended up in a funky cinema which sold beer and had
a theater with many beat up lounge chairs and tables mixed with their
regular seats. we took over the place with about 50 of us (1/5 of the
whole conference) and made it one of the memorable nights of my geek
life. the few poor souls who actually wanted to see the matrix in all
its insipid glory had lousy luck in picking their show time. a pair of
them sat in front of randal and kept shhhing him. we should hire them to
hand around with him more often. the best audience line was when the bad
guys were viciously interrogating our intrepid (and stiff acting) hero,
and a monger bellowed "you didn't use strict!!!".

friday began with another free breakfast and hookie time. other than
ziggy's perl mongoloids session (or was it some other portuguese word?)
i stayed out of the ballrooms. lunch was hanging at the pm table and
scarfing pizza. and they had root beer and not just coke and its
poisonous isotopes. again better than o'reilly. this was turning out to
be a great deal.

after lunch was more perl/gtk and hookie until jon orwant addressed the
post-apocolyptic survivors (and i don't mean yapc attendees :-).

the best line of the show: a 13 year old perl hacker said, "i loaded
linux onto our pc and my mom got pissed!" he may be a kiddie, but the
script prefix doesn't apply to him.

then there was the town meeting where we got to give back to kevin what
he deserved. first i had to win another prize for the glory of boston
pm. i was able to scarf an EPP for knowing how to print "hello world!"
or was it something much harder? i was also given a whole bag of perl
stuff from the masters of pm and i have since sold them for an
outrageous profit to python lusers.

towards the end of the meeting we all decided to act out a scene from a
favorite movie. it seems that kevin can't add numbers too well and was
over budget (use Big::Int!!). with kevin as george bailey, abigail as
mary, myself as uncle billy, a perl bag was passed around and jacksons
kept flying through the air until over $1K was amassed. kevin
practically pissed in his pants or maybe he actually did (we should call
hime "old yellowstain"). with value this show provided any unexpected
fees just were converted a well earned tip from all the working hackers.

that evening was a study in chinese fire drill organization and a bunch
managed to be in the same restaurant in the same temporal plane. it was
goodbye for many of us. the word was passed to meet at noon the next
day. many were staying over saturday to save on airfares.

on saturday a fair number (25 or so) crossed paths in the courtyard
outside the conference center. we caravanned to the darkest cave we could
find and proceeded to swill gallons of fine beer and scarfed moby sized
burritos and bushels of chips and salsa. afterwards we had a major civil
war about deciding the next destination. my faction decided to keep the
geekness of our experience alive while the rest weenied out and went to
some artsy fartsy place. our gang of four hightailed it to pittsburgh's
geek palace after a long and unintentional self-guided tour of iron city's
highways and byways. don't attempt this at home.

when we finally got to the andrew's temple of geekdom, we were able to
finagle our way in by using my boy scout perl hacking merit badge. i
claimed the other 3 hackers as my long lost children and i was told to
lose them again. we also glommed discount tix to various visual
experiences. showing off our juggling skills and playing with the large
metal brain-teaser toys kept us out of trouble for a long while. i got
to crunch a marshmallow after it had a liquid nitrogen bath. crunchy and
chewy at the same time!  finally we entered the maxi-flick theater and
were subjected to visual motion sensory overload and TMI on how
multimedia thrill rides are created. the second feature was more real
with omar sharif playing a doubled grand slam inside the great pyramid
of egypt. my children were pooped so i reaped them and tucked them into
their vehicle whereupon i proceeded solo to my third visual overload in
a row. do not do this at home. it was the spherical wall of floyd and
well worth the neck sprain and retinal burns from the lasers. no one
told me not to look at them directly. i dragged myself to the lobby and
was able to get a cab to convey me back to my boudoir. i actually caught
my 7:30 flight the next morning and was welcomed back to my fortress of
marriage.

my one yapc regret is not trying an "Original" hot dog. it seems we
passed a place (near the beehive theater) which is a famous hotdog
place. one ex-cmu type mentioned it. but it was showcased in the recent
pbs show on great hotdogs around the country. and i could have eaten
there! next year we must schedule a visit there and we will consume mass
quantities. their fries look awesome and their servings are bigger than
your car.

so all in all, i had a helluva time as did most of the cobol coders who
attended. best geek value i have ever seen. lenzo is one cool bot. cmu
sucks compared to cambridge tech but it has a nicer conference
center. perl rulez!

uri guttman, uri@sysarch.com

